Networking begins with the OSI Models:

in simple terms for packets it means "Data" with their source and destination.

OSI (Open System Interconnection) - This model primarily focuses on how TCP/IP works and how a packet is traversed into 7 different layers.
TCP/IP - The main tool for the implementation of networking. These help to define how datas are gathered, addressed, transmitted and more.

Application layer - The top layer of the TCP/IP that determines the web browser using the transport layer in which the data can be sent and received.
      It consist of two layers - HTTP (HyperText Transfer Protocol) and SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol).
      It consists of head and payload.

Transport layer - It determines how datas are transmitted, including the ports, integreting and delivering the packets.
      It consists of two layers - TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) and UDP (User Datagram Protocol).
      
Network layer - It determines how the packets move between the hosts and the network
      It consists of two layers - 
          IP (Internet Protocol) - transfer packets from one host to the other.
          ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol) - updates the current status to the user such as errors, debugging.
      The internet is divided into smaller network and these are called subnets.

To get the packets information between one host to the other MAC (Media Access Control) and IP address are requried. Making it easier to identify the host.

MAC - It is a unique identifier of the system's hardware address. Each organization manufacturing the network adapters has 3 bytes of MAC address.

IP Address - used to identify the device connected to the network. It consist of 2 types IPv4 and IPv6.

DNS (Domain Name System) - Each webpage/site consists of a IP address, it is hardd for humans to remember them so for those address a domain name will be given. Ex (8.8.8.8 - Google Public DNS)

DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) - Provides the IP address, Subnet masks and gateways, It automatically provides IP address to the network admin and removes the duplicate address.

Subnetting - dividing larger networks into smaller networks. ex 10.0.0.2/25 (2 subnets), 10.0.0.2/26 (4 subnets).
Supernetting - combining smaller networks into larger networks. ex combining 192.168.1.0/24 * 2 to 192.168.1.0/22.

Routing - Moving/transferring of data to different networks.
Switching - Transferring of data within the same network.

NAT (Network Address Translation) - Allowing multiple private IP address to access in a single public IP addres.
      Types - Static NAT, Dynamic NAT and PAT (Port Address Translation)

Firewall and security - A in-built device that controls the incoming and outgoing traffic.
      Types - Hardware (Device), Software (Operating System)
Security - Antivirus, encryption, VPN.

IPv6 - advanced version of IPv4 consists of address bits to 128bits.
      Types - Unicast (1-1), Multicast (1-∞) and Anycast (1-nearest).




